Payment Card Wallet
===================

Bernard Parenteau

bern\@floridalogic.com bparente\@fit.edu

October 2018

v2 May 2019

The problem:
------------

If a Bitcoin wallet is compromised and a malicious actor obtains a
private key they can immediately spend any coins held by its associated
public key addresses. This fact, along with the uncertain security of
both common user networks and personal computers and devices, leads to
real and perceived vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities can dissuade
many coin owners from using their own private wallets, instead prompting
them to effectively outsource security to an exchange. Evidence of this
can be seen by the transaction volumes on exchanges. As such, many of
Bitcoin's original design goals, including decentralization, anonymity,
and direct peer-to-peer transactions with no intermediaries have been
sacrificed by the centralization and KYC/AML requirements of exchanges.
(note recent "Proof of Keys" movement to encourage individual wallet
ownership)

There are good existing solutions for desktop wallets such as using
hardware wallets to complement existing software wallets. But for
reasons ranging from perceived complexity to conceptual unfamiliarity to
costs, these are not as ubiquitous as they might be.

And there are fewer secure solutions for users that would like to manage
their holdings on their mobile devices, though several hardware wallets
also have mobile device connectivity.

A solution:
-----------

Most consumers are comfortable with credit cards and many are familiar
with smart card authorizations. We combine these common security
concepts to create a two factor authorization system for Bitcoin. The
second factor will be a key combination stored externally on contactless
smart cards with a form factor of a credit card. The payment card will
need to be in close proximity to the mobile wallet initiating the
transaction to spend Bitcoin that has been received by the Payment Card
Wallet.

### Payment Card Wallet

The Payment Card Wallet is initially a customized version of the
Electrum open source wallet for mobile devices that can receive and hold
Bitcoins with multi-signature transactions (multi-sig in P2SH). And one
of those signatures will have to be generated by a key on the card.

A user of the wallet will receive a credit card-sized smart card (the
user would probably want multiple copies of the card for backup). The
card will contain cryptographic codes on an RFID chip that can be read
by the wallet. The payment card must be in physical proximity to the
wallet's mobile device for any coins to be spent.

Unlike some other security schemes, the Payment Card Wallet is more
resilient to attacks in which phone service and phone numbers are
hijacked, because a physical card is required to spend the coins.

(see the CardWalletDesign document for technical details)

The Goal:
---------

The goal is to increase decentralization and anonymity via the use of
individual wallets, with minimal modifications to existing
methodologies. By providing additional security using techniques
familiar to most users, such as payment card authorized spending that
requires the actual card, it is hoped that more consumers will be
encouraged to use their own wallets.

The Present and the Future:
---------------------------

The initial version is for Bitcoin and uses a 1KB RFID chip in a plastic
payment card.

Subsequent functionality is planned to include support for additional
cryptocurrencies.

Subsequent functionality is also planned to include a wallet version
that uses NFC to communicate with a chip on the card. This would enable
the card to act as an ad hoc hardware wallet, potentially providing
additional functionality and security.

RFID vs NFC
-----------

While new mobile devices support NFC, most existing mobile devices do
not. There have recently been a couple similar payment cards introduced
(Cool Wallet S, D'Cent Card Wallet) that use a chip on the card and
require the mobile device to have NFC to power the chip. This design
also typically requires additional hardware component(s) and
subsequently some additional cost.

But given that many existing mobile devices, especially lower-cost
devices, do not have NFC capabilities, we chose to develop our initial
version with readable RFID chip functionality only. As such, it might be
particularly useful in lower income areas, as both the card itself and
the mobile device would both be less expensive.
